CELLAR -- DRAFT AGENDA for Virtual Interim Meeting
April 27, 2021      21:00 Amsterdam  ***
                       20:00 UTC
                       16:00 NYC
                       13:00 San Francisco
(*** Time is anchored to Amsterdam)

INFO:
   https://github.com/ietf-wg-cellar/chair-notes/tree/master/interim-2021-04 
   (*** Note that we're now pointing to the Github repo for chair notes here***)

WEB CONFERENCE:

   https://whereby.com/cellar-interim

   THERE IS NO TELEPHONE DIALIN (You can try connecting to the whereby.com link at any time.)

   Attendees
   * Spencer Dawkins 
   * Michael Richardson
   * Jérôme Martinez
   * Michael Niedermeyer
   * Dave Rice
   * Martin Below

   Regrets
   * (possibly) Mortiz Bunkus

1.  Note Well.  https://www.ietf.org/about/note-well/

2.  Accept draft minutes from previous meeting (attached below)
    objections asked for, and none received

3.  Logistics for Meeting.
   3a) Shared COMIMD for notetaking:
       https://codimd.ietf.org/notes-cellar-virtual
       * Note that if you log in to the IETF datatracker, you'll 
       be able to edit these notes, add your name to attendee 
       lists, etc. *
       
       Please ask Spencer if you have questions.

   3b) APPEAR.IN is now called "whereby.com"

       https://whereby.com/cellar-interim

   3c) Roll call

4.  WG status update

   * draft-ietf-cellar-codec-06 was posted 2021-04-12, in ID Exists
   * draft-ietf-cellar-ffv1-20 was posted 2021-02-23, is now in RFC Editor Queue
   * draft-ietf-cellar-ffv1-v4-16 was posted 2020-12-01, in ID Exists
   * draft-ietf-cellar-matroska-07 was posted 2021-04-12, in ID Exists
   * draft-ietf-cellar-tags-06 was posted 2021-04-12, in ID Exists
   * draft-ietf-cellar-flac-00 was posted 2019-07-30, has Expired (and we still don't have an editor, correct?)



5.  Milestone review: 
   * Michael has requested that the RFC Editor move the FFv1 normative reference to Matroska informative, and this has happened. Do we also need to move two other normative references in FFv1 to informative?

Action: Michael will send email to AD and RFC-Editor requesting this, so we won't have to talk about this in AUTH48
    DONE.

   * Matroska maybe at the end of Summer 2021? It's closer than we thought 

Action: we're making a lot of progress on this - we just need to figure out where we are

   * "Matroska" includes -codec and -tags, correct? Spencer has updated this in the datatracker.

   * FLAC just needs an editor to complete the work. Michael still hasn't heard from Florin, so the working group has a decision to make about FLAC. 

Action: Dave will submit an update on this. 
    We need to chase Florin down and get an answer.
    Dave is working on https://github.com/ietf-wg-cellar/Cellar-FLAC/pull/92, making changes for XML2RFCv3 and making sure we have valid authors (not organizations) with email addresses (by working group last call)

* FFV1-v4 requires more research, and it is unclear when we will know what a realistic goal date is. 
    

5.  2021 virtual interim meeting dates

   * Please note our 2021 dates listed at https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/cellar/meetings/
   * IETF 111 in July will definitely be virtual (announced last week). 
   * Sometime around 2021-09-28, we’ll see if we want to meet at IETF 112 on November 6-12, 2021, in person in Madrid.

6.  From the mailing list: From Steve, on EBML errata
   * we have 2 merged changes and 2 pending changes in Github
   * What needs to happen next?
   * https://www.rfc-editor.org/errata.php#reportnew
   * On the call - we're submitting the pending changes in the errata system

7.  From the mailing list: From Steve, on Matroska #495 section reordering
   * Steve volunteered to rebuild the txt/html files and send before/after to the mailing list
   * Do we need to do anything else?
   * No other action needed - 
Action: Steve, please proceed as you suggested!
    
8.   FFV1 v4 issues 
    * No work on FFV4 to report this month
    * Status: somewhat stalled at the moment. We've mostly collected information for v4 while working on the v1-v3 document, and need some brainstorming time. 
    * We think getting the v1-v3 document will help gather critical mass in the working group.
    * We do need some working group time to brainstorm on v4 - we can do this as a meeting, on the mailing list, or more broadly.
    * What are the goals for v4? Compressed frames that expand are already in v4. We've identified some bugs, and we have some ideas in Github. We have a requirement for another color scheme (two greens)
    * Starting to focus on the Introduction would also be useful (added as an issue) - Jerome will start work on this
    * We can put ideas in the Introduction first, and then either add them to the spec or remove them from the Introduction as work proceeds.
   
9.  Matroska issues
   * 

10. FLAC issues
   * Michael has reached out to Florin to see about his interest in helping with this document, but we don't have an answer from him. 
       * no response to email April 27.

ACTION: Dave will repost flac document with new version number.
    DONE during the meeting.
    
AOB?

    NEXT MEETING May 25, 2021.

Notes from previous meeting for approval

CELLAR -- DRAFT AGENDA for Virtual Interim Meeting
March 23, 2021      21:00 Amsterdam  ***
                       20:00 UTC
                       16:00 NYC
                       13:00 San Francisco
(*** Time is anchored to Amsterdam)

INFO:
   https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/agenda-interim-2021-cellar-03-cellar-01/

WEB CONFERENCE:

   https://whereby.com/cellar-interim

   THERE IS NO TELEPHONE DIALIN (You can try this at any time.)

   These notes at: https://github.com/cellar-wg/chair-notes
   
   Attendees
   * Spencer Dawkins 
   * Michael Richardson
   * Martin Below
   * Jérôme Martinez
   * Dave Rice
   * 

1.  Note Well.  https://www.ietf.org/about/note-well/
2.  Accept draft minutes from January 26 meeting (attached below)

3.  Logistics for Meeting.
   3a) Shared COMIMD for notetaking:
       https://codimd.ietf.org/notes-cellar-virtual
       * Note that if you log in to the IETF datatracker, you'll 
       be able to edit these notes, add your name to attendee 
       lists, etc. *
       
       Please ask Spencer if you have questions.

   3b) APPEAR.IN is now called "whereby.com"

       https://whereby.com/cellar-interim

   3c) Roll call

4.  WG status update

   * draft-ietf-cellar-codec-05 was posted 2020-10-19, in ID Exists
   * draft-ietf-cellar-ffv1-20 was posted 2020-12-01, was approved before IETF 110, is now in RFC Editor Queue
   * draft-ietf-cellar-ffv1-v4-16 was posted 2020-12-01, in ID Exists
   * draft-ietf-cellar-matroska-06 was posted 2020-10-19, in ID Exists
   * draft-ietf-cellar-tags-05 was posted 2020-10-19, in ID Exists
   * FLAC specification has not been posted to the datatracker yet
   
   * We agreed at the December 2020 meeting that we would have a focused conversation about FFV1 v4 in our February meeting, and noted then that the April 2021 date is not realistic. At this point, NONE of our existing dates are realistic. We'll discuss on this call. 

   * Milestone review:  Matroska maybe at the end of Summer 2021? It's closer than we thought
   * FLAC just needs an editor to complete the work.
   * FFV1-v4 requires more research, and it is unclear when we will know what a realistic goal date is. 

5.  2021 virtual interim meeting dates

   * Please note that the our 2021 dates listed at https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/cellar/meetings/
   * Determination of whether IETF 111 in July will be able to meet in person, to be made in a month or two. 
   * Sometime around 2021-09-28, we’ll see if we want to meet at IETF 112 on November 6-12, 2021, in person in Madrid.

6.  Celebration of FFV1 approval for publication as RFC, with minor cleanup
   * IESG ballot positions at https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-cellar-ffv1/ballot/

   * We will have our second RFC "Real Soon Now"
   * We need to pay close attention to normative references, especially if they are really informative
   * FFV1 doesn't actually have a normative dependency on Matroska - are any other normative dependencies actually informative? If so, we can ask that these changes be made during AUTH48, with AD concurrence.
   * RFC Editor has made the change to Matroska (being Informative) with AD approval, so the draft is not blocked on MISS\*REF (missing normative reference)

7.  From the mailing list: Normative references that are actually Informative references
   * Do we have anything else to change, in FFv1?
   * Do we have anything to change in other specifications?
   
ACTION: mcr to have two other normative references in FFv1 changed to informative.
    
8.   FFV1 v4 issues 

   * too soon to figure out what are the major differences yet to do in v4.
   * there are still open possibilities in performance without changing the v3 bitstream format, and those that do not work, will make up the v4 changeset.
   * we can close #240 (as soon as we figure out how)
   
9.  Matroska issues
   * Discussion on Github issues, especially on chapters

10. FLAC issues
   * Michael has reached out to Florin to see about his interest in helping with this document, but we don't have an answer from him. 
       * no response to email Feb. 23.

ACTION: Dave will repost flac document with new version number.

AOB?