# CELLAR -- DRAFT AGENDA for Virtual Interim Meeting

| Date |Time | Local Times |
|:------:|:-----------:|:------|
|2021-10-26 |21:00 Amsterdam |[Time Converter](https://savvytime.com/converter/netherlands-amsterdam-to-utc-ny-new-york-city-ca-san-francisco/jun-22-2021/9pm)|
| **Note** | Meeting time is anchored to Amsterdam |

## Administrivia 

### INFO:
   https://github.com/ietf-wg-cellar/chair-notes/tree/master/interim-2021-09 
**Note that we're now pointing to the Github repo for chair notes here**

### WEB CONFERENCE:

   https://whereby.com/cellar-interim

   THERE IS NO TELEPHONE DIALIN (You can try connecting to the whereby.com link at any time.)
:::warning
   We are still on whereby.com for this meeting, but still planning to move to Meetecho for upcoming meetings. Please stay alert!
:::
   
#### Shared COMIMD for notetaking: https://codimd.ietf.org/notes-cellar-virtual
* Note that if you log in to the IETF datatracker, you'll be able to edit these notes, add your name to attendee lists, etc. 
* Please ask Spencer if you have questions.
:::warning
   The ComiMD URL is still redirecting, but the newly official location is https://notes.ietf.org/notes-cellar-virtual?edit - and that's active now. Please bookmark the new one when you're redirected to it. 
:::

### Logistics for Meeting

#### 2021 virtual interim meeting dates

 * Please note our 2021 dates listed at https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/cellar/meetings/
 * November 23, 2021: 21:00 Paris   (2000 UTC)

## Agenda Items

### Note Well:  https://www.ietf.org/about/note-well/

#### Roll call

  Attendees
   * Spencer Dawkins
   * Michael Richardson
   * Steve Lhomme
   * Jerome Martinez
   * Martijn van Beurden
   * Reto Kromer
   * Dave Rice
   * Michael Niedermayer

  Regrets 
   * 

### News You Can Use
   * **NOTE** that https://mediaarea.net/NoTimeToWait5 is December 8-10, with in-person and virtual registration - a lot of us are attending
    ** workshop on improving Matroska, and how to improve FFV1.
    ** the workshops are on December 8, meeting 9/10.

#### Proposed final dates for 2022 Cellar meetings

   * 2022-01-25
   * 2022-02-22
   * 2022-03-29
   * 2022-04-26
   * 2022-05-24
   * 2022-06-28
   * 2022-08-23
   * 2022-09-27
   * 2022-10-25
   * 2022-12-06

**ACTION** Michael sending request to our ADs and requesting secretariat to add these meetings in the datatracker

###  WG status update

   * draft-ietf-cellar-chapter-codecs-00 was posted 2021-10-09, in ID Exists **New this month**
   * draft-ietf-cellar-codec-07 was posted 2021-10-19, in ID Exists
   * draft-ietf-cellar-control-00 was posted 21-10-09, in ID Exists **New this month**
   * draft-ietf-cellar-ffv1-v4-17 was posted 2021-05-25, in ID Exists 
   * draft-ietf-cellar-flac-01 was posted 2021-04-27, in ID Exists, **New version being posted manually**
   * draft-ietf-cellar-matroska-08 was posted 2021-10-09, in ID Exists
   * draft-ietf-cellar-tags-0 was posted 2021-10-09, in ID Exists

###  Milestone review: 

   * Previous status: Jerome is now able to focus on FFV1-v4, since we've published FFV1. **ACTION** Spencer to send e-mail to DISPATCH when we submit a (small) update. We should wait until we have a bit more text, or bigger issues, to publish as a draft. 
   * Are we ready to submit a working group draft for EBML updates (errata plus additions) yet? (https://github.com/ietf-wg-cellar/ebml-specification/tree/corrections-doc) - we can still wait for more feedback/bigger changes before submitting anything - ETA is "after we get Matroska out, so we know everything Matroska needs will be covered"
   * **Have we selected a new editor for FLAC?** actually, no, and we need to. This work is heating up, but until this becomes a bottleneck, we can wait until Matroska is out

#### Accept draft minutes from previous meeting (attached below)

   * Any objections? Please let us know on the mailing list. 
   * No objections on the mailing list or on the call. 

### Making sure we have copyright issues straightened out for the FLAC specification 
   * Remember, the issue we care about right now is whether the IETF can publish a FLAC specification
   * Our "last Contact" for the specification we're working with, is "Copyright (c) 2000-2009 Josh Coalson, 2011-2014 Xiph.Org Foundation" (https://xiph.org/flac/format.html)

##### Discussion on the call
   * We are still verifying what the license covering the specification is - it's GFL 1.1, specified in the HTML file 
   * Continue with the current document, or start a new one?
   * Dave has confirmed with Andrew Weaver that he's not interested in continuing the work
   * Our issue is that the IETF licensing is incompatible with GFL license, because we're using copyright as a substitute for a trademark, since trademark doesn't exist in all countries
   * This is probably a conversation we should have with the IETF Trust
   * We should also give our ADs a heads-up
   * Michael is writing a note to the IETF Trust on our call, asking for guidance

### Matroska issues - Discussion on the call
   * Merging the easy PRs for now 
   * Two categories of issues are left
   * Checking with Moritz on 3-4 pull requests, can move ahead without a reply
   * Steve - we're close to being ready for a full review
   * New Matroska docs were taken out of the main specification, and aren't blocking for us to move forward
   * Both new documents need closer looks and discussion

### FLAC issues - Discussion on the call
   * Lots of open issues and PRs are new
   * We have a new version, being posted manually
   * ("Ongoing")
   * We need to track our changes to FLAC while we chase down the plan for dealing with the original text

### FFV1 v4 issues - Discussion on the call
   * No discussion on the call

## AOB?
   * We have new test files repos  - **ACTION** Spencer to update our activity report
   * We will meet on Whereby in November meeting, and then (try to) migrate to MeetEcho as a group
   * Keep an eye on CoViD-19 situations no matter where you are and where you will be!

:::success
NEXT MEETING 2021-11-23 :tada:
:::
    
## Notes from previous meeting for approval

# CELLAR -- DRAFT AGENDA for Virtual Interim Meeting

| Date |Time | Local Times |
|:------:|:-----------:|:------|
|2021-09-28 |21:00 Amsterdam |[Time Converter](https://savvytime.com/converter/netherlands-amsterdam-to-utc-ny-new-york-city-ca-san-francisco/jun-22-2021/9pm)|
| **Note** | Meeting time is anchored to Amsterdam |

## Administrivia 

### INFO:
   https://github.com/ietf-wg-cellar/chair-notes/tree/master/interim-2021-07 
**Note that we're now pointing to the Github repo for chair notes here**

### WEB CONFERENCE:

   https://whereby.com/cellar-interim

   THERE IS NO TELEPHONE DIALIN (You can try connecting to the whereby.com link at any time.)
:::warning
   We are still on whereby.com for this meeting, but still planning to move to Meetecho for upcoming meetings. Please stay alert!
:::
   
#### Shared COMIMD for notetaking: https://codimd.ietf.org/notes-cellar-virtual
* Note that if you log in to the IETF datatracker, you'll be able to edit these notes, add your name to attendee lists, etc. 
* Please ask Spencer if you have questions.
:::warning
   The ComiMD URL is still redirecting, but the newly official location is https://notes.ietf.org/notes-cellar-virtual?edit - and that's active now. Please bookmark the new one when you're redirected to it. 
:::

### Logistics for Meeting

#### 2021 virtual interim meeting dates

 * Please note our 2021 dates listed at https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/cellar/meetings/
 * October 26, 2021: 21:00 Paris    (1900 UTC)
 * November 23, 2021: 21:00 Paris   (2000 UTC)

## Agenda Items

### Note Well:  https://www.ietf.org/about/note-well/

#### Roll call

  Attendees
   * Spencer Dawkins
   * Dave Rice
   * Michael Richardson
   * Jerome Martinez
   * Michael Niedermayer
   * Steve Lhomme
   * Martijn van Beurden

  Regrets 
   * Reto Kromer
   * 

### News You Can Use
   * **NOTE** that https://mediaarea.net/NoTimeToWait5 is December 8-10, with in-person and virtual registration - are Cellar people attending?
    ** workshop on improving Matroska, and how to improve FFV1.
    ** the workshops are on December 8, meeting 9/10.

#### Default dates for 2022 Cellar meetings
   * 2022-01-25
   * 2022-02-22
   * 2022-03-22 (but this is IETF 113 - move it to 2022-03-29)
   * 2022-04-26
   * 2022-05-24
   * 2022-06-28
   * 2022-07-26 (but this is IETF 114 - we canceled July in 2021. Is canceling July the right summer month to cancel? Yes - we MIGHT be meeting in person, at the IETF, but too soon to know that yet)
   * 2022-08-23
   * 2022-09-27
   * 2022-10-25
   * 2022-11-22 (this is Tuesday of American Thanksgiving - does anyone care?)
   * 2022-12-27 (but this is winter break for most of us, so we canceled in 2021. Maybe move it to 2022-12-06, or is that too close to the November meeting? 


proposed final dates:
   * 2022-01-25
   * 2022-02-22
   * 2022-03-29
   * 2022-04-26
   * 2022-05-24
   * 2022-06-28
   * 2022-08-23
   * 2022-09-27
   * 2022-10-25
   * 2022-12-06
**ACTION** Spencer to confirm on mailing list

###  WG status update

   * draft-ietf-cellar-codec-06 was posted 2021-04-12, in ID Exists
   * draft-ietf-cellar-ffv1-v4-17 was posted 2021-05-25, in ID Exists 
   * draft-ietf-cellar-flac-01 was posted 2021-04-27, in ID Exists 
   * draft-ietf-cellar-matroska-07 was posted 2021-04-12, in ID Exists
   * draft-ietf-cellar-tags-06 was posted 2021-04-12, in ID Exists

###  Milestone review: 


   * Previous status: Jerome is now able to focus on FFV1-v4, since we've published FFV1. **ACTION** Spencer to send e-mail to DISPATCH when we submit a (small) update. We should wait until we have a bit more text, or bigger issues, to publish as a draft. 
   * Are we ready to submit a working group draft for EBML updates (errata plus additions) yet? (https://github.com/ietf-wg-cellar/ebml-specification/tree/corrections-doc)
   * FLAC still needs an editor to complete the work. Michael did hear back from Florin, and he's unable to serve as editor, so the working group has a decision to make about FLAC. 

##### Discussion on the call
   * Steve is waiting for reviews on Matroska (should we just merge everything? :-) Timescale looks like the tricky question, for now. Can start preliminary review on merged documents then. Planning to sort IDs for IANA (we have over 100 of them) - want to make sure this is easy to verify correctness. 
   **IANA will accept XML file for everything**
   * When RFC for Matroska is published, do we have to do anything to update links to Internet-Drafts? No, that's handled by IANA. 

#### Accept draft minutes from previous meeting (attached below)

 * Any objections? Please let us know on the mailing list. 
 * No objections during the call. 

### Matroska issues - Discussion on the call
 * Mostly validating patches and approving them

### FFV1 v4 issues - Discussion on the call
 * Jerome has ideas for proof of concepts, but not ready to share that yet. 
 * Some questions about licensing in IETF - license on FFV1 not present, patch has been approved and applied. License is same as Matroska. 

### FLAC issues - Discussion on the call
 * (We noted that we don't have the original FLAC authors involved - we probably need to do some homework on this, to ensure that we handle copyright for FLAC correctly)
 * Remember to mention the FLAC format author(s) - "Josh Coalson", copyrights in 2009 and 2011 on the website
 * Martijn van Beurden would like to help, and has experience on libFLAC. For now, we just need to make sure that everything in the documents makes sense/is logical. If anything is missing, we just need to create issues (https://github.com/ietf-wg-cellar/Cellar-FLAC/issues) and PRs for that. 

## AOB?
 * Spencer welcomed Martijn van Beurden and thanked him for his offer of help on FLAC

:::success
NEXT MEETING 2021-10-26 :tada:
:::

