# CELLAR -- DRAFT AGENDA for Virtual Interim Meeting

| Date |Time | Local Times |
|:------:|:-----------:|:------|
|2022-09-27 |21:00 Amsterdam |[Time Converter](https://savvytime.com/converter/netherlands-amsterdam-to-utc-ny-new-york-city-ca-san-francisco/jun-22-2021/9pm)|
| **Note** | Meeting time is anchored to Amsterdam |

## Administrivia

### INFO:
   https://github.com/ietf-wg-cellar/chair-notes/tree/master/interim-2022-08
   **Note that we're now pointing to the Github repo for chair notes here**

### MEETING INFO and WEB CONFERENCE:

info: https://datatracker.ietf.org/meeting/interim-2022-cellar-08/session/cellar
      https://meetings.conf.meetecho.com/interim/?short=15d8336e-e68f-44e5-b837-6b6e5cba9b64

note that chat is now Zulip:
https://zulip.ietf.org/login/#narrow/stream/cellar

but is accessible via meetecho interface.

#### Shared HedgeDoc for notetaking

    Now using the Datatracker assigned notepad at:
    https://notes.ietf.org/notes-ietf-interim-2022-cellar-08-cellar

* Note that if you log in to the IETF datatracker, you'll be able to edit/clarify/correct these notes, add your name to attendee lists, etc.

* Please ask Michael or Spencer if you have questions.

#### 2022 virtual interim meeting dates

 * Please note our 2022 dates listed at https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/cellar/meetings/

## Agenda Items

### Note Well:  https://www.ietf.org/about/note-well/

#### Roll call

  Attendees
   * Spencer Dawkins
   * Michael Richardson
   * Martijn van Beurden
   * Steve Lhomme
   * Jérôme Martinez
   * Michael Niedermayer

  Regrets
  * Reto Kromer
  * Dave Rice

### Upcoming In-person meeting
   October 28, 1200UTC, The Hague.
   details: https://datatracker.ietf.org/meeting/interim-2022-cellar-11/session/cellar
   https://www.digitalmeetsculture.net/article/no-time-to-wait-conference/
   
   * At a minimum, Spencer will be attending remotely
   * Michael is arriving on Thursday night
   * We will run this as a normal meeting, with the addition of a short description of the IETF and Cellar working group

#### Accept draft minutes from previous meeting (attached below)

   * Any objections? Please let us know on the mailing list.
       * not the thing attached, please go look at the mailing list.
   * Martijn read them and has no objections.
   * no objections, so the minutes are approved. 

###  WG status update

   * draft-ietf-cellar-chapter-codecs-01 posted 2022-04-30, in ID Exists
   * draft-ietf-cellar-codec-09 was posted 2022-04-30, in ID Exists
   * draft-ietf-cellar-control-01 was posted 2022-05-01, in ID Exists
   * draft-ietf-cellar-ffv1-v4-19 was posted 2022-05-31, in ID Exists
   * draft-ietf-cellar-flac-05 was posted 2022-09-27, in ID Exists
   * ***draft-ietf-cellar-matroska-13 was posted 2022-07-03,
      in WG Consensus: and has write up posted now.
   * draft-ietf-cellar-tags-09 was posted 2022-04-30, in ID Exists

###  Milestone review:

   * FLAC -  did not make July 2022 milestone. What is realistic update for milestone?
    ** the document is pretty much ready.  A few grammar issues, but otherwise, nothing. 
    ** will review for consistency within this draft
    ** working up to WGLC - Spencer is volunteering to shepherd this document.
    

### Matroska issues - Discussion of [shepherd writeup from Michael](https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/cellar/hoyvAqjTxYNpQHdGU59TQXLEbRI/) on the call.

   * is there anything left to do before we get into AD and IESG reviews?
   ** a few bugs of a few elements, but might be for v5? 
   ** mime-type -> mediatype. 
   * normative vs informative references for codecs and tags drafts
   ** can make a player with raw video and raw audio.
   ** definitely can use the document without tags (definitely information)
   ** is BCP47 sufficient? So we don't need to refer to the underlying ISO document? Spencer votes "BCP 47 is sufficient"
   ** CIE 1931 document (from 1937) is also an issue - we need to contact CIE and ask about references, or perhaps just reference WikiPedia, which has the formula correctly (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CIE_1931_color_space)
   ** We need to include these decisions in the shepherd write-up for Matroska
   ** Steve will merge for a new version by this coming weekend
   
### FLAC issues - Discussion on the call

   * #138 and #158 were reviewed and solved.
   ** WGLC to start very soon.

### FFV1 v4 issues - Discussion on the call

   * still a lot of work to finish this, still early stages.
   * ffv1, v3 is enough for most people, but many improvements, but what?
   * Can we do a short presentation at NTTW, on where we are with v4 now, and what might be missing?

## AOB?

   * 
   * Next meeting is 2022-10-28, in-person!

# Previous Minutes - CELLAR -- DRAFT AGENDA for Virtual Interim Meeting

| Date |Time | Local Times |
|:------:|:-----------:|:------|
|2022-08-23 |21:00 Amsterdam |[Time Converter](https://savvytime.com/converter/netherlands-amsterdam-to-utc-ny-new-york-city-ca-san-francisco/jun-22-2021/9pm)|
| **Note** | Meeting time is anchored to Amsterdam |

## Administrivia

### INFO:
   https://github.com/ietf-wg-cellar/chair-notes/tree/master/interim-2022-07
   **Note that we're now pointing to the Github repo for chair notes here**

### WEB CONFERENCE:

    https://meetings.conf.meetecho.com/interim/?short=8291e9a9-5e5d-4f43-928a-9f49e52df598

#### Shared HedgeDoc for notetaking

    Now using the Datatracker assigned notepad at:
    https://notes.ietf.org/notes-ietf-interim-2022-cellar-07-cellar?view

* Note that if you log in to the IETF datatracker, you'll be able to edit/clarify/correct these notes, add your name to attendee lists, etc.

* Please ask Michael or Spencer if you have questions.

#### 2022 virtual interim meeting dates

 * Please note our 2022 dates listed at https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/cellar/meetings/

## Agenda Items

### Note Well:  https://www.ietf.org/about/note-well/

#### Roll call

  Attendees
   * Spencer Dawkins
   * Martijn van Beurden
   * Steve Lhomme
   * Reto Kromer
   * Michael Niedermayer

  Regrets
   * Jérôme Martinez

#### Accept draft minutes from previous meeting (attached below)

   * Any objections? Please let us know on the mailing list.
   * No objections on the call.

###  WG status update

   * draft-ietf-cellar-chapter-codecs-01 posted 2022-04-30, in ID Exists 
   * draft-ietf-cellar-codec-09 was posted 2022-04-30, in ID Exists
   * draft-ietf-cellar-control-01 was posted 2022-05-01, in ID Exists
   * draft-ietf-cellar-ffv1-v4-19 was posted 2022-05-31, in ID Exists
   * draft-ietf-cellar-flac-04 was posted 2022-08-21, in ID Exists
   * ***draft-ietf-cellar-matroska-11 was posted 2022-07-03, in WG Consensus: Waiting for Write-Up, and has been updated after WGLC***
   * draft-ietf-cellar-tags-09 was posted 2022-04-30, in ID Exists

###  Milestone review:

   * FLAC -  did not make July 2022 milestone. What is realistic update for milestone?
    ** We said at the June meeting that we could spend all of the August meeting on FLAC, if we needed to ... 
    
##### Discussion on the call

   * NoTimeToWait 2022 announced as October 26-28, 2022. The venue is the The Hague.
   * Our AD has approved our October interim meeting to be colocated with NTTW, after some struggles with the datatracker, and Spencer may be the only working group participant who WON'T be there in person. 

### [Matroska](https://github.com/ietf-wg-cellar/matroska-specification/issues) issues - Discussion of [shepherd writeup from Michael - Part 1](https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/cellar/hoyvAqjTxYNpQHdGU59TQXLEbRI/) and [shepherd writeup from Michael - Part 2](https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/cellar/3mWFna18UUXe0sYS9S-NFy6j9uY/) on the call.

   * Michael is document shepherd. He has completed his review, and we will pass it on to AD for review when we have a draft version that addresses Michael's review comments. 
   * We did have some questions for Michael, but Michael was not able to join the call before we adjourned. 

### [FLAC](https://github.com/ietf-wg-cellar/flac-specification/issues) issues - Discussion on the call

   * from our last call: 
       * #138 and #158 need review.
   * #138 has been merged for uploaded draft
   * #158 - encapsulation specification on FLAC website is quite short - we do have a question about vorbis comment metadata blocks and order. Will it be a problem if the Matroska codecs document is referenced normatively? We don't think being encapsulated in Matroska is an indispensible part of FLAC. We can put anything critical in the FLAC specification itself. How to encapsulate MP4 is huge, and we really want to refer to an MP4 document, rather than cut-and-paste or try to summarize. We know what to change, in order to merge this one.
   * New question - section on development history that would describe FLAC software that will produce output that is not complant with the current spec because of non-forward-compatible changes to FLAC. We have done this with Matroska, and think it would be fine, especially as an informative appendix, especially for archival formats. 
   * New question - we have about 60 FLAC test files in Github, and we do have some aspects of FLAC that are not well supported. What do we do with that information? We have the same problem with some parts of Matroska. We note that this information will not age well. Spencer suggested that one approach is the one used in https://github.com/ietf-wg-mops/draft-ietf-mops-streaming-opcons, with an informative reference to a "living document" in GitHub. This might also be useful for implementation guidance (also important, also may not age well)

### [FFV1 v4](https://github.com/FFmpeg/FFV1/issues) issues - Discussion on the call

   * We did chat a bit about how to move text around so that it was easier to use diffs - Spencer suggested doing all the technical changes, submitting a revision, and then submitting a revision with ONLY block moves. 
   
## AOB?

   * Next meeting is 2022-09-27
