# CELLAR -- DRAFT AGENDA for Virtual Interim Meeting

| Date |Time | Local Times |
|:------:|:-----------:|:------|
|2024-05-28 21:00 Amsterdam |[Time Converter](https://savvytime.com/converter/netherlands-amsterdam-to-utc-ny-new-york-city-ca-san-francisco/jun-22-2021/9pm)|
| **Note** | Meeting time is anchored to Amsterdam |

## Administrivia

(Note: "cellar-02" is correct, because the meetings are numbered for the order in which they were created, not the month in which they occur)

### INFO:
    https://notes.ietf.org/notes-ietf-interim-2024-cellar-02-cellar
    https://github.com/ietf-wg-cellar/chair-notes/tree/master/interim-2024-02
    **Note that we're now pointing to the Github repo for chair notes here**

### MEETING INFO and WEB CONFERENCE:
    https://datatracker.ietf.org/meeting/interim-2024-cellar-02/session/cellar
    https://meetings.conf.meetecho.com/interim/?group=944aa53e-3f9b-4ac1-ac1f-db35ba005750

note that chat is now Zulip:
    https://zulip.ietf.org/login/#narrow/stream/cellar
but is accessible via meetecho interface.

#### Shared HedgeDoc for notetaking

    Now using the Datatracker assigned notepad at:
    https://notes.ietf.org/notes-ietf-interim-2024-cellar-02-cellar

* Note that if you log in to the IETF datatracker, you'll be able to edit/clarify/correct these notes, add your name to attendee  lists, etc.

* Please ask Michael or Spencer if you have questions.

#### 2024 virtual interim meeting dates

 * Please note our 2024 dates listed at https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/cellar/meetings/

### Note Well:
    https://www.ietf.org/about/note-well/
    Please be KIND to each other.

#### Roll call

  Attendees
   * Michael Richardson
   * Spencer Dawkins
   * Steve Lhomme
   * Martijn van Beurden
   * Jérôme Martinez

#### Accept draft minutes from previous meeting

    MINUTES ARE AT: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/minutes-interim-2024-cellar-05-202404091900/
    April meeting minutes accepted.

###  WG status update

| Draft | State | Date Posted | Plans
|:------|:------|:------------|:------
| draft-ietf-cellar-chapter-codecs-04   | ID Exists | 2024-01-27  |
| draft-ietf-cellar-codec-13            | ID Exists | 2024-05-05  |
| draft-ietf-cellar-control-04          | ID Exists | 2024-01-27  |
| draft-ietf-cellar-ffv1-v4-22          | ID Exists | 2024-01-17  |
| draft-ietf-cellar-flac-14             | RFC ED Queue | 2024-01-14 |
| draft-ietf-cellar-matroska-21         | AUTH48 | 2023-10-22* |
| draft-ietf-cellar-tags-13             | ID-Exists | 2024-05-05 |

###  Milestone review:

any changes to: https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/cellar/about/
~~Jul 2022~~	Submit specification for FFV1 video codec version 4 to IESG (Standards Track)

## Agenda Items

### New business: Email to mailing list, on ffv1/PNG as a format. 

   * "Proposal to embed FFV1 as a compression method into PNG or another format"

   * FFV1 compression to be used within PNG container.
       * That would require a new PNG compression ID for FFV1. 

   * Who is responsible for the "IANA" considerations for getting a new compression ID for FFV1?
       * PNG WAS RFC 2083, but that's not authoritative. PNG went to W3C, but ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 24 is now the owner.
       * will need liason help with this.
       * github: https://github.com/w3c/PNG-spec/issues  https://www.w3.org/TR/png-3/

   * This is interesting, but maybe not in scope for Cellar? 
       * An excellent question to discuss with our new AD, Orie Steele
       * Is this our problem? Only because FFV1 is our problem, and we'd like for FFV1 to be everywhere.
       * Can the people who are interested in adding FFV1 to PNG make that happen without help from Cellar?

   * Jérôme will follow up with bloodysword=40gmx.net@dmarc.ietf.org. 

   * if we need help, we can follow up with liaison-coordination@iab.org (if this needs to happen at ISO) or Martin Thomson at https://datatracker.ietf.org/person/Martin%20Thomson (as our W3C liaison manager)
   * Spencer knows something about the IETF/IAB process for liaison with other SDOs

### AUTH48 status report on Matroska edits

I propose that we change section 20.3 as follows:

   The menu features are handled like a chapter codec.
   This is the subject of future work. [informative: chapter-codec]

### Next steps for additional Matroska specifications 

   * **which document to start on next?**
   * there is a google summer of code student working on interactive movie, and chapter codec will get many updates over the summer.
   * cellar-codec now has a milestone associated with it now.

### FLAC [IESG ballot](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-cellar-flac/ballot/)

   * Document was approved for publication by IESG.
   * No action required until this document appears in AUTH48

## AOB?
    * The »No Time to Wait« conference is back for its eighth edition, taking place from September 11 to 13, 2024 at the ZKM | Center for Art and Media Karlsruhe.

Next meeting is 2024-06-25.

