<div id="doc" class="markdown-body container-fluid"><h1 id="CELLAR-–-DRAFT-AGENDA-for-Virtual-Interim-Meeting">CELLAR – DRAFT AGENDA for Virtual Interim Meeting</h1><table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th style="text-align:center">Date</th>
<th style="text-align:center">Time</th>
<th style="text-align:left">Local Times</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td style="text-align:center">2021-11-23</td>
<td style="text-align:center">21:00 Amsterdam</td>
<td style="text-align:left"><a href="https://savvytime.com/converter/netherlands-amsterdam-to-utc-ny-new-york-city-ca-san-francisco/jun-22-2021/9pm" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Time Converter</a></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align:center"><strong>Note</strong></td>
<td style="text-align:center">Meeting time is anchored to Amsterdam</td>
<td style="text-align:left"></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table><h2 id="Administrivia">Administrivia</h2><h3 id="INFO">INFO:</h3><p><a href="https://github.com/ietf-wg-cellar/chair-notes/tree/master/interim-2021-09" target="_blank" rel="noopener">https://github.com/ietf-wg-cellar/chair-notes/tree/master/interim-2021-09</a><br>
<strong>Note that we’re now pointing to the Github repo for chair notes here</strong></p><h3 id="WEB-CONFERENCE">WEB CONFERENCE:</h3><p><a href="https://whereby.com/cellar-interim" target="_blank" rel="noopener">https://whereby.com/cellar-interim</a></p><p>THERE IS NO TELEPHONE DIALIN (You can try connecting to the <a href="http://whereby.com" target="_blank" rel="noopener">whereby.com</a> link at any time.)</p><div class="alert alert-warning">
<p>We are still on <a href="http://whereby.com" target="_blank" rel="noopener">whereby.com</a> for this meeting, but still planning to move to Meetecho for upcoming meetings. Please stay alert!</p>
</div><h4 id="Shared-COMIMD-for-notetaking-httpscodimdietforgnotes-cellar-virtual">Shared COMIMD for notetaking: <a href="https://codimd.ietf.org/notes-cellar-virtual" target="_blank" rel="noopener">https://codimd.ietf.org/notes-cellar-virtual</a></h4><ul>
<li>Note that if you log in to the IETF datatracker, you’ll be able to edit these notes, add your name to attendee lists, etc.</li>
<li>Please ask Spencer if you have questions.</li>
</ul><div class="alert alert-warning">
<p>The ComiMD URL is still redirecting, but the newly official location is <a href="https://notes.ietf.org/notes-cellar-virtual?edit" target="_blank" rel="noopener">https://notes.ietf.org/notes-cellar-virtual?edit</a> - and that’s active now. Please bookmark the new one when you’re redirected to it.</p>
</div><h3 id="Logistics-for-Meeting">Logistics for Meeting</h3><h4 id="2021-virtual-interim-meeting-dates">2021 virtual interim meeting dates</h4><ul>
<li>Please note our 2022 dates listed at <a href="https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/cellar/meetings/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/cellar/meetings/</a></li>
</ul><h2 id="Agenda-Items">Agenda Items</h2><h3 id="Note-Well-httpswwwietforgaboutnote-well">Note Well:  <a href="https://www.ietf.org/about/note-well/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">https://www.ietf.org/about/note-well/</a></h3><h4 id="Roll-call">Roll call</h4><p>Attendees</p><ul>
<li>Spencer Dawkins</li>
<li></li>
</ul><p>Regrets<br>
*</p><h3 id="News-You-Can-Use">News You Can Use</h3><ul>
<li><strong>NOTE</strong> that <a href="https://mediaarea.net/NoTimeToWait5" target="_blank" rel="noopener">https://mediaarea.net/NoTimeToWait5</a> is December 8-10, with in-person and virtual registration - a lot of us are attending<br>
** workshop on improving Matroska, and how to improve FFV1.<br>
** the workshops are on December 8, meeting 9/10.</li>
</ul><h4 id="Final-dates-for-2022-Cellar-meetings-have-been-approved-by-our-AD-and-added-to-the-datatracker">Final dates for 2022 Cellar meetings have been approved by our AD and added to the datatracker</h4><ul>
<li>2022-01-25</li>
<li>2022-02-22</li>
<li>2022-03-29</li>
<li>2022-04-26</li>
<li>2022-05-24</li>
<li>2022-06-28</li>
<li>2022-08-23</li>
<li>2022-09-27</li>
<li>2022-10-25</li>
<li>2022-12-06</li>
</ul><h3 id="WG-status-update">WG status update</h3><ul>
<li>draft-ietf-cellar-chapter-codecs-00 was posted 2021-10-09, in ID Exists</li>
<li>draft-ietf-cellar-codec-07 was posted 2021-10-19, in ID Exists</li>
<li>draft-ietf-cellar-control-00 was posted 21-10-09, in ID Exists</li>
<li>draft-ietf-cellar-ffv1-v4-17 was posted 2021-05-25, in ID Exists <strong>Expires Soon</strong></li>
<li>draft-ietf-cellar-flac-02 was posted 2021-11-01, in ID Exists</li>
<li>draft-ietf-cellar-matroska-08 was posted 2021-10-09, in ID Exists</li>
<li>draft-ietf-cellar-tags-0 was posted 2021-10-09, in ID Exists</li>
</ul><h3 id="Milestone-review">Milestone review:</h3><ul>
<li>Previous status: Jerome is now able to focus on FFV1-v4, since we’ve published FFV1. <strong>ACTION</strong> Spencer to send e-mail to DISPATCH when we submit a (small) update. We should wait until we have a bit more text, or bigger issues, to publish as a draft.</li>
<li>Are we ready to submit a working group draft for EBML updates (errata plus additions) yet? (<a href="https://github.com/ietf-wg-cellar/ebml-specification/tree/corrections-doc" target="_blank" rel="noopener">https://github.com/ietf-wg-cellar/ebml-specification/tree/corrections-doc</a>) - we can still wait for more feedback/bigger changes before submitting anything - ETA is “after we get Matroska out, so we know everything Matroska needs will be covered”</li>
</ul><h4 id="Accept-draft-minutes-from-previous-meeting-attached-below">Accept draft minutes from previous meeting (attached below)</h4><ul>
<li>Any objections? Please let us know on the mailing list.</li>
<li>No objections on the mailing list or on the call.</li>
</ul><h3 id="Making-sure-we-have-copyright-issues-straightened-out-for-the-FLAC-specification">Making sure we have copyright issues straightened out for the FLAC specification</h3><ul>
<li>Update from Michael on discussions with Josh Coulson and IETF Trust</li>
<li>Continue with the current document, or start a new one?</li>
</ul><h5 id="Discussion-on-the-call">Discussion on the call</h5><ul>
<li></li>
</ul><h3 id="Matroska-issues---Discussion-on-the-call">Matroska issues - Discussion on the call</h3><ul>
<li></li>
</ul><h3 id="FLAC-issues---Discussion-on-the-call">FLAC issues - Discussion on the call</h3><ul>
<li></li>
</ul><h3 id="FFV1-v4-issues---Discussion-on-the-call">FFV1 v4 issues - Discussion on the call</h3><ul>
<li>No discussion on the call</li>
</ul><h2 id="AOB">AOB?</h2><ul>
<li></li>
</ul><div class="alert alert-success">
<p>NEXT MEETING 2022-01-25 <img class="emoji" alt=":tada:" src="https://notes.ietf.org/build/emojify.js/dist/images/basic/tada.png"></p>
</div><h2 id="Notes-from-previous-meeting-for-approval">Notes from previous meeting for approval</h2><h1 id="CELLAR-–-DRAFT-AGENDA-for-Virtual-Interim-Meeting1">CELLAR – DRAFT AGENDA for Virtual Interim Meeting</h1><table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th style="text-align:center">Date</th>
<th style="text-align:center">Time</th>
<th style="text-align:left">Local Times</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td style="text-align:center">2021-10-26</td>
<td style="text-align:center">21:00 Amsterdam</td>
<td style="text-align:left"><a href="https://savvytime.com/converter/netherlands-amsterdam-to-utc-ny-new-york-city-ca-san-francisco/jun-22-2021/9pm" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Time Converter</a></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align:center"><strong>Note</strong></td>
<td style="text-align:center">Meeting time is anchored to Amsterdam</td>
<td style="text-align:left"></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table><h2 id="Administrivia1">Administrivia</h2><h3 id="INFO1">INFO:</h3><p><a href="https://github.com/ietf-wg-cellar/chair-notes/tree/master/interim-2021-09" target="_blank" rel="noopener">https://github.com/ietf-wg-cellar/chair-notes/tree/master/interim-2021-09</a><br>
<strong>Note that we’re now pointing to the Github repo for chair notes here</strong></p><h3 id="WEB-CONFERENCE1">WEB CONFERENCE:</h3><p><a href="https://whereby.com/cellar-interim" target="_blank" rel="noopener">https://whereby.com/cellar-interim</a></p><p>THERE IS NO TELEPHONE DIALIN (You can try connecting to the <a href="http://whereby.com" target="_blank" rel="noopener">whereby.com</a> link at any time.)</p><div class="alert alert-warning">
<p>We are still on <a href="http://whereby.com" target="_blank" rel="noopener">whereby.com</a> for this meeting, but still planning to move to Meetecho for upcoming meetings. Please stay alert!</p>
</div><h4 id="Shared-COMIMD-for-notetaking-httpscodimdietforgnotes-cellar-virtual1">Shared COMIMD for notetaking: <a href="https://codimd.ietf.org/notes-cellar-virtual" target="_blank" rel="noopener">https://codimd.ietf.org/notes-cellar-virtual</a></h4><ul>
<li>Note that if you log in to the IETF datatracker, you’ll be able to edit these notes, add your name to attendee lists, etc.</li>
<li>Please ask Spencer if you have questions.</li>
</ul><div class="alert alert-warning">
<p>The ComiMD URL is still redirecting, but the newly official location is <a href="https://notes.ietf.org/notes-cellar-virtual?edit" target="_blank" rel="noopener">https://notes.ietf.org/notes-cellar-virtual?edit</a> - and that’s active now. Please bookmark the new one when you’re redirected to it.</p>
</div><h3 id="Logistics-for-Meeting1">Logistics for Meeting</h3><h4 id="2021-virtual-interim-meeting-dates1">2021 virtual interim meeting dates</h4><ul>
<li>Please note our 2021 dates listed at <a href="https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/cellar/meetings/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/cellar/meetings/</a></li>
<li>November 23, 2021: 21:00 Paris   (2000 UTC)</li>
</ul><h2 id="Agenda-Items1">Agenda Items</h2><h3 id="Note-Well-httpswwwietforgaboutnote-well1">Note Well:  <a href="https://www.ietf.org/about/note-well/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">https://www.ietf.org/about/note-well/</a></h3><h4 id="Roll-call1">Roll call</h4><p>Attendees</p><ul>
<li>Spencer Dawkins</li>
<li>Michael Richardson</li>
<li>Steve Lhomme</li>
<li>Jerome Martinez</li>
<li>Martijn van Beurden</li>
<li>Reto Kromer</li>
<li>Dave Rice</li>
<li>Michael Niedermayer</li>
</ul><p>Regrets<br>
*</p><h3 id="News-You-Can-Use1">News You Can Use</h3><ul>
<li><strong>NOTE</strong> that <a href="https://mediaarea.net/NoTimeToWait5" target="_blank" rel="noopener">https://mediaarea.net/NoTimeToWait5</a> is December 8-10, with in-person and virtual registration - a lot of us are attending<br>
** workshop on improving Matroska, and how to improve FFV1.<br>
** the workshops are on December 8, meeting 9/10.</li>
</ul><h4 id="Proposed-final-dates-for-2022-Cellar-meetings">Proposed final dates for 2022 Cellar meetings</h4><ul>
<li>2022-01-25</li>
<li>2022-02-22</li>
<li>2022-03-29</li>
<li>2022-04-26</li>
<li>2022-05-24</li>
<li>2022-06-28</li>
<li>2022-08-23</li>
<li>2022-09-27</li>
<li>2022-10-25</li>
<li>2022-12-06</li>
</ul><p><strong>ACTION</strong> Michael sending request to our ADs and requesting secretariat to add these meetings in the datatracker</p><h3 id="WG-status-update1">WG status update</h3><ul>
<li>draft-ietf-cellar-chapter-codecs-00 was posted 2021-10-09, in ID Exists <strong>New this month</strong></li>
<li>draft-ietf-cellar-codec-07 was posted 2021-10-19, in ID Exists</li>
<li>draft-ietf-cellar-control-00 was posted 21-10-09, in ID Exists <strong>New this month</strong></li>
<li>draft-ietf-cellar-ffv1-v4-17 was posted 2021-05-25, in ID Exists</li>
<li>draft-ietf-cellar-flac-01 was posted 2021-04-27, in ID Exists, <strong>New version being posted manually</strong></li>
<li>draft-ietf-cellar-matroska-08 was posted 2021-10-09, in ID Exists</li>
<li>draft-ietf-cellar-tags-0 was posted 2021-10-09, in ID Exists</li>
</ul><h3 id="Milestone-review1">Milestone review:</h3><ul>
<li>Previous status: Jerome is now able to focus on FFV1-v4, since we’ve published FFV1. <strong>ACTION</strong> Spencer to send e-mail to DISPATCH when we submit a (small) update. We should wait until we have a bit more text, or bigger issues, to publish as a draft.</li>
<li>Are we ready to submit a working group draft for EBML updates (errata plus additions) yet? (<a href="https://github.com/ietf-wg-cellar/ebml-specification/tree/corrections-doc" target="_blank" rel="noopener">https://github.com/ietf-wg-cellar/ebml-specification/tree/corrections-doc</a>) - we can still wait for more feedback/bigger changes before submitting anything - ETA is “after we get Matroska out, so we know everything Matroska needs will be covered”</li>
<li><strong>Have we selected a new editor for FLAC?</strong> actually, no, and we need to. This work is heating up, but until this becomes a bottleneck, we can wait until Matroska is out</li>
</ul><h4 id="Accept-draft-minutes-from-previous-meeting-attached-below1">Accept draft minutes from previous meeting (attached below)</h4><ul>
<li>Any objections? Please let us know on the mailing list.</li>
<li>No objections on the mailing list or on the call.</li>
</ul><h3 id="Making-sure-we-have-copyright-issues-straightened-out-for-the-FLAC-specification1">Making sure we have copyright issues straightened out for the FLAC specification</h3><ul>
<li>Remember, the issue we care about right now is whether the IETF can publish a FLAC specification</li>
<li>Our “last Contact” for the specification we’re working with, is “Copyright © 2000-2009 Josh Coalson, 2011-2014 <a href="http://Xiph.Org" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Xiph.Org</a> Foundation” (<a href="https://xiph.org/flac/format.html" target="_blank" rel="noopener">https://xiph.org/flac/format.html</a>)</li>
</ul><h5 id="Discussion-on-the-call1">Discussion on the call</h5><ul>
<li>We are still verifying what the license covering the specification is - it’s GFL 1.1, specified in the HTML file</li>
<li>Continue with the current document, or start a new one?</li>
<li>Dave has confirmed with Andrew Weaver that he’s not interested in continuing the work</li>
<li>Our issue is that the IETF licensing is incompatible with GFL license, because we’re using copyright as a substitute for a trademark, since trademark doesn’t exist in all countries</li>
<li>This is probably a conversation we should have with the IETF Trust</li>
<li>We should also give our ADs a heads-up</li>
<li>Michael is writing a note to the IETF Trust on our call, asking for guidance</li>
</ul><h3 id="Matroska-issues---Discussion-on-the-call1">Matroska issues - Discussion on the call</h3><ul>
<li>Merging the easy PRs for now</li>
<li>Two categories of issues are left</li>
<li>Checking with Moritz on 3-4 pull requests, can move ahead without a reply</li>
<li>Steve - we’re close to being ready for a full review</li>
<li>New Matroska docs were taken out of the main specification, and aren’t blocking for us to move forward</li>
<li>Both new documents need closer looks and discussion</li>
</ul><h3 id="FLAC-issues---Discussion-on-the-call1">FLAC issues - Discussion on the call</h3><ul>
<li>Lots of open issues and PRs are new</li>
<li>We have a new version, being posted manually</li>
<li>(“Ongoing”)</li>
<li>We need to track our changes to FLAC while we chase down the plan for dealing with the original text</li>
</ul><h3 id="FFV1-v4-issues---Discussion-on-the-call1">FFV1 v4 issues - Discussion on the call</h3><ul>
<li>No discussion on the call</li>
</ul><h2 id="AOB1">AOB?</h2><ul>
<li>We have new test files repos  - <strong>ACTION</strong> Spencer to update our activity report</li>
<li>We will meet on Whereby in November meeting, and then (try to) migrate to MeetEcho as a group</li>
<li>Keep an eye on CoViD-19 situations no matter where you are and where you will be!</li>
</ul><div class="alert alert-success">
<p>NEXT MEETING 2021-11-23 <img class="emoji" alt=":tada:" src="https://notes.ietf.org/build/emojify.js/dist/images/basic/tada.png"></p>
</div></div>