CELLAR -- MINUTES for Virtual Interim Meeting
December 1, 2020     21:00 Amsterdam  ***
                       20:00 UTC
                       16:00 NYC
                       13:00 San Francisco
(Time is anchored to Amsterdam)

INFO:
   https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/agenda-interim-2020-cellar-09-cellar-01/

WEB CONFERENCE:

   https://whereby.com/cellar-interim
   THERE IS NO TELEPHONE DIALIN (You can try this at any time.)
   These notes at: https://github.com/cellar-wg/chair-notes


Attendees

1. Spencer Dawkins
2. Jérôme Martinez
3. Michael Richardson
4. Steve Lhomme
5. Michael Niedermayer
6. Rohit Abhishek
7.


Regrets:
1. Dave Rice
2.


1. Note Well.  https://www.ietf.org/about/note-well/
2. Accept draft minutes from October 27 meeting (attached below)

3. Logistics for Meeting.
   3a) Shared COMIMD for notetaking:
       https://codimd.ietf.org/notes-cellar-virtual
       * Note that if you log in to the IETF datatracker, you'll
       be able to edit these notes, add your name to attendee
       lists, etc. *

       Please ask Spencer if you have questions.

   3b) APPEAR.IN is now called "whereby.com"

       https://whereby.com/cellar-interim

   3c) Roll call

4. WG status update

   * FFV1 -- version 18 was posted 2020-10-07, waiting for revision
       * new document on github today -> new document to be uploaded to DT.
       * some feedback sent to those with DISCUSS (Roman and Barry) ballots.


5. 2021 Proposed virtual interim meeting dates
   Fourth Tuesdays in 2021 are
   * January 26
   * February 23
   * March 23
   * April 27
   * May 25
   * June 22
   * ~~July 28 clashes with IETF 111~~
   * August 24
   * September 28
   * October 26
   * November 23.   IETF 112: November 6-12, 2021: MAYBE in person meeting?
   ~~* December 28 winter holidays~~
   What do we need to change?
   Let's book this pattern, and then, around 2021-09-28, we'll see if we want to meet in person in Madrid.
   NoTimeToWait (March 2021, cancelled), but maybe December 2021.
   [December 6 is Matroska's birthday!!!]


6. remaining FFV1 issues from DISCUSS
   * no remaining issues!
   * https://github.com/FFmpeg/FFV1/releases/tag/draft-ietf-cellar-ffv1-19_v4-16

7. Matroska issues
   * much discussion about accurate time stamps, progress in a number of pull requests.
   *

8. FLAC issues
   * no focus on this yet.


AOB?

A lot of debate about what we want to do for FFV1 v4.
We will need a focused conversation about this. {have this conversation in Feb. meeting}:  April 2021 date is not realistic.
The RFC on FFV1 versions v1 to v3 coming out will be a big motivation for the industry.

Next meeting is: January 26.


    NEXT MEETING January 26, 2021.

Notes from previous meeting for approval

CELLAR -- DRAFT AGENDA for Virtual Interim Meeting
October 27, 2020     21:00 Amsterdam  ***
                       20:00 UTC
                       16:00 NYC
                       13:00 San Francisco
(Europe has changed clocks, North America has not. Time is anchored to Amsterdam)

INFO:
   https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/agenda-interim-2020-cellar-08-cellar-01/

WEB CONFERENCE:

   https://whereby.com/cellar-interim

   THERE IS NO TELEPHONE DIALIN (You can try this at any time.)

   These notes at: https://github.com/cellar-wg/chair-notes

   Attendees
1. Spencer Dawkins
2. Michael Richardson
3. Steve Lhomme
4. Jerome Martinez
5. Dave Rice
6. Michael Niedermayer
7. Martin Below

1. Note Well.  https://www.ietf.org/about/note-well/
2. Accept draft minutes from September 22 meeting (attached below)

3. Logistics for Meeting.
   3a) Shared COMIMD for notetaking:
       https://codimd.ietf.org/notes-cellar-virtual
       * Note that if you log in to the IETF datatracker, you'll
       be able to edit these notes, add your name to attendee
       lists, etc. *

       Please ask Spencer if you have questions.

   3b) APPEAR.IN is now called "whereby.com"

       https://whereby.com/cellar-interim

   3c) Roll call

4. WG status update
   * some documents expired:
   ** I-D was expired :draft-ietf-cellar-matroska-05.txt
   ** I-D was expired :draft-ietf-cellar-codec-04.txt
   ** I-D was expired :draft-ietf-cellar-tags-04.txt

   * FFV1 -- version 18 was posted 2020-10-07, waiting for revision


5. remaining FFV1 issues from DISCUSS
   * We talked about how to respond to DISCUSS ballots from area directors. Basically, we reply to their ballot e-mails and either point them to an update that should resolve their DISCUSSes and COMMENTS, or talk with them and resolve any confusion (on our part, or on theirs).

6. Matroska issues

Sampling accuracy:
https://github.com/cellar-wg/matroska-specification/pull/425/files
Reuse TrackTimestampScale which was deprecated, but has running code to solve the problem of time scaling.

<i didn't understand that second question>

Recurring Attribute of element:   what does it mean?
The answer is in the EBML document!

draft-ietf-cellar-tags-04.txt document is pretty much done, and won't change very much.
draft-ietf-cellar-codec-04.txt how deep do we want to describe codec mappings?  We probably aren't going to do this for every codec, but maybe a few more?

8. FLAC issues

"ffv1" for audio.
(A bit related to ogg, when you mux it?)
We still want to do this at some point, but it is not a priority compared to ffv1, (and ffv1-v4).

AOB?

- From Spencer - when do we need to talk about 2021 meeting dates? :-)
- Answer - we'll put this on the December Agenda

Some revision to the WG milestones, to be confirmed with AD.

    NEXT MEETING December 1, 2020.
