# CELLAR -- DRAFT MINUTES for Virtual Interim Meeting

| Date |Time | Local Times |
|:------:|:-----------:|:------|
|2022-03-29 |21:00 Amsterdam |[Time Converter](https://savvytime.com/converter/netherlands-amsterdam-to-utc-ny-new-york-city-ca-san-francisco/jun-22-2021/9pm)|
| **Note** | Meeting time is intentionally anchored to Amsterdam |

## Administrivia

### Logistics for Meeting

### INFO:
   https://github.com/ietf-wg-cellar/chair-notes/tree/master/interim-2022-02
   **Note that we're now pointing to the Github repo for chair notes here**

### WEB CONFERENCE:

   https://meetings.conf.meetecho.com/interim/?short=cfe1fd60-bccc-413f-a57b-fdf3cbf2878b

**This link ^^ changes every month. Spencer did not know this.**

    Please note that the MeetEcho links for 2022 are available at https://gce.conf.meetecho.com/admin-ietf/

#### Shared HedgeDoc for notetaking: https://notes.ietf.org/notes-cellar-virtual?edit

* Note that if you log in to the IETF datatracker, you'll be able to edit these notes, add your name to attendee lists, etc.
* Please ask Spencer if you have questions.

#### 2022 virtual interim meeting dates

 * Please note our 2022 dates listed at https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/cellar/meetings/

## Agenda Items

### Note Well:  https://www.ietf.org/about/note-well/

#### Roll call

  Attendees
   * Spencer Dawkins
   * Martijn van Beurden
   * Michael Richardson
   * Reto Kromer
   * Steve Lhomme
   * Jerome Martinez

  Regrets
   *

#### Accept draft minutes from previous meeting (attached below)

   * Any objections? Please let us know on the mailing list.
   * No Objections, so ...

###  WG document status update

   * draft-ietf-cellar-chapter-codecs-00 was posted 2021-10-09, in ID Exists
   * draft-ietf-cellar-codec-07 was posted 2021-10-19, in ID Exists
   * draft-ietf-cellar-control-00 was posted 2021-10-09, in ID Exists
   * draft-ietf-cellar-ffv1-v4-18 was posted 2021-11-27, in ID Exists
   * draft-ietf-cellar-flac-02 was posted 2021-11-01, in ID Exists
   * draft-ietf-cellar-matroska-08 was posted 2021-10-09, in ID Exists
   * draft-ietf-cellar-tags-07 was posted 2021-10-09, in ID Exists

###  Milestone review:

   * Previous status: Jerome is now able to focus on FFV1-v4, since we've published FFV1.
       **ACTION** Spencer to send e-mail to DISPATCH when we submit a (small) update. We should wait until we have a bit more text, or bigger issues, to publish as a draft.

   * Are we ready to submit a working group draft for EBML updates (errata plus additions) yet? (https://github.com/ietf-wg-cellar/ebml-specification/tree/corrections-doc)
       * we can still wait for more feedback/bigger changes before submitting anything - ETA is "after we get Matroska out, so we know everything Matroska needs will be covered"
       * also have some implementation/experience reports.

### FLAC as Standards Track or Informational
   * PR #135 is OK to push
   * Closed for now

### errata to acknowledge the MP4 registry work for FFV1
   * as listed in https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/cellar/kcchQqo6aq2veXijhwVmozQDLCc/.
   * Steve will enter errata for this
   * Need to add same material for FFV1-V4 but we do this in GitHub, because that's not a published RFC
   * https://github.com/FFmpeg/FFV1/blob…master/ffv1.md#matroska-file-format=
   * See https://mp4ra.org/#/codecs and search FFV1

### ?? email on #matroska-user with the subject "[Matroska-users] Video Coding History questions”
   * Postponed to April meeting

### push matroska-09 and submit it for review to the higher powers
   * One remaining issue, and it's unrelated
   * Ready to push this one now.
   * We'll initiate WGLC and forward email to appropriate mailing lists outside IETF.
   * Will be four week WGLC with two-week reminder

### publish codec-08 and tags-08 as well since they seem to expire in April
   * (but "Codec changes include proper reference to the (renamed) UncompressedFourCC element and AVS3 codec" and "Tags have the new TVDB2 tag")
   * will publish when they expire - they're not being WGLCed

### FLAC issues - Discussion on the call
   * Two new issues, please review
   * Issues #145 and #146

### Matroska issues - Discussion on the call
   * Can defer this and focus on codecs and tags until after WGLC

### FFV1 v4 issues - Discussion on the call
   * No updates on this call
   * We need to discuss directions on the April call

## AOB?
   *

:::success
NEXT MEETING 2022-04-26 :tada:
:::

# CELLAR -- DRAFT AGENDA for Virtual Interim Meeting

| Date |Time | Local Times |
|:------:|:-----------:|:------|
|2022-01-25 |21:00 Amsterdam |[Time Converter](https://savvytime.com/converter/netherlands-amsterdam-to-utc-ny-new-york-city-ca-san-francisco/jun-22-2021/9pm)|
| **Note** | Meeting time is intentionally anchored to Amsterdam |

## Administrivia

### Logistics for Meeting

### INFO:
   https://github.com/ietf-wg-cellar/chair-notes/tree/master/interim-2022-01
   **Note that we're now pointing to the Github repo for chair notes here**

### WEB CONFERENCE:

   https://meetings.conf.meetecho.com/interim/?short=7c38e939-3eaf-451e-8fde-8d05e4bd88c8

#### Shared COMIMD for notetaking: https://codimd.ietf.org/notes-cellar-virtual

* Note that if you log in to the IETF datatracker, you'll be able to edit these notes, add your name to attendee lists, etc.
* Please ask Spencer if you have questions.
:::warning
   The ComiMD URL is still redirecting, but the newly official location is https://notes.ietf.org/notes-cellar-virtual?edit - and that's active now. Please bookmark the new one when you're redirected to it.
:::


#### 2022 virtual interim meeting dates

 * Please note our 2022 dates listed at https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/cellar/meetings/

## Agenda Items

### Note Well:  https://www.ietf.org/about/note-well/

#### Roll call

  Attendees
   * Martijn van Beurden
   * Michael Richardson
   * Steve Lhomme
   * Michael Niedermayer
   * Jérôme Martinez

  Regrets
   * Spencer Dawkins (will be 30 min late)

#### Accept draft minutes from previous meeting (attached below)

   * Any objections? Please let us know on the mailing list.
   * No objections on the mailing list or on the call.

###  WG status update

   * draft-ietf-cellar-chapter-codecs-00 was posted 2021-10-09, in ID Exists
   * draft-ietf-cellar-codec-07 was posted 2021-10-19, in ID Exists
   * draft-ietf-cellar-control-00 was posted 2021-10-09, in ID Exists
   * draft-ietf-cellar-ffv1-v4-18 was posted 2021-11-27, in ID Exists
   * draft-ietf-cellar-flac-02 was posted 2021-11-01, in ID Exists
   * draft-ietf-cellar-matroska-08 was posted 2021-10-09, in ID Exists
   * draft-ietf-cellar-tags-07 was posted 2021-10-09, in ID Exists

###  Milestone review:

   * Previous status: Jerome is now able to focus on FFV1-v4, since we've published FFV1.
       **ACTION** Spencer to send e-mail to DISPATCH when we submit a (small) update. We should wait until we have a bit more text, or bigger issues, to publish as a draft.


   * Are we ready to submit a working group draft for EBML updates (errata plus additions) yet? (https://github.com/ietf-wg-cellar/ebml-specification/tree/corrections-doc)
       * we can still wait for more feedback/bigger changes before submitting anything - ETA is "after we get Matroska out, so we know everything Matroska needs will be covered"
       * also have some implementation/experience reports.
   * Discussion about what is an Internet Standard.
       * it is actually quite an old format, a lot of implementations.
           * but for many implementations, there will be no updates, but the current files play just fine.

### Matroska issues - Discussion on the call
   * merged a few pull requests
   * merged/rewrote the time work, defined different ticks for each time base
       * was trying to sample/presized timestamps.  Could work, but would never be backwards compatible.  So, removed that part, and simplified the result.
           * got some comments, but it is ready.
           * some bugs, but already fixed.
   * https://github.com/ietf-wg-cellar/matroska-specification/pull/577 more review needed.
   * https://github.com/ietf-wg-cellar/matroska-specification/pull/578 generated IANA Considerations.
       * does not generate unassigned for gaps
       * "Any values not mentioned in this table are unassigned"
   * https://github.com/ietf-wg-cellar/matroska-specification/pull/521 needs to be merged (timebase)
   * https://github.com/ietf-wg-cellar/matroska-specification/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+project%3Aietf-wg-cellar%2Fmatroska-specification%2F1+-label%3Amatroska-v5+-label%3A%22control+track%22   this is the list of things that need to be fixed before the document can be finished.
       * also: PRs: https://github.com/ietf-wg-cellar/matroska-specification/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+project%3Aietf-wg-cellar%2Fmatroska-specification%2F1+-label%3Amatroska-v5+-label%3A%22control+track%22+sort%3Acreated-desc

### FLAC issues - Discussion on the call
   * Discussion about Examples, and Numerical Considerations Appendix.
   * Martijn will merge some items and close some dead issues and post a new version soon.

### FFV1 v4 issues - Discussion on the call
   * No progress to discuss.

## AOB?
   * EBML query from Martijn!

:::success
NEXT MEETING 2022-02-22 :tada:
:::
