CELLAR -- DRAFT AGENDA for Virtual Interim Meeting
October 27, 2020     21:00 Amsterdam  ***
                       20:00 UTC
                       16:00 NYC
                       13:00 San Francisco
(Europe has changed clocks, North America has not. Time is anchored to Amsterdam)

INFO:
   https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/agenda-interim-2020-cellar-08-cellar-01/

WEB CONFERENCE:

   https://whereby.com/cellar-interim

   THERE IS NO TELEPHONE DIALIN (You can try this at any time.)

   These notes at: https://github.com/cellar-wg/chair-notes
   
   Attendees
1. Spencer Dawkins
2. Michael Richardson
3. Steve Lhomme
4. Jerome Martinez
5. Dave Rice
6. Michael Niedermayer
7. Martin Below

1. Note Well.  https://www.ietf.org/about/note-well/
2. Accept draft minutes from September 22 meeting (attached below)

3. Logistics for Meeting.
   3a) Shared COMIMD for notetaking:
       https://codimd.ietf.org/notes-cellar-virtual
       * Note that if you log in to the IETF datatracker, you'll 
       be able to edit these notes, add your name to attendee 
       lists, etc. *
       
       Please ask Spencer if you have questions.

   3b) APPEAR.IN is now called "whereby.com"

       https://whereby.com/cellar-interim

   3c) Roll call

4. WG status update
   * some documents expired:
   ** I-D was expired :draft-ietf-cellar-matroska-05.txt
   ** I-D was expired :draft-ietf-cellar-codec-04.txt
   ** I-D was expired :draft-ietf-cellar-tags-04.txt

   * FFV1 -- version 18 was posted 2020-10-07, waiting for revision


5. remaining FFV1 issues from DISCUSS
   * We talked about how to respond to DISCUSS ballots from area directors. Basically, we reply to their ballot e-mails and either point them to an update that should resolve their DISCUSSes and COMMENTS, or talk with them and resolve any confusion (on our part, or on theirs). 

6. Matroska issues
 
Sampling accuracy:
https://github.com/cellar-wg/matroska-specification/pull/425/files
Reuse TrackTimestampScale which was deprecated, but has running code to solve the problem of time scaling.

<i didn't understand that second question>

Recurring Attribute of element:   what does it mean?
The answer is in the EBML document!

draft-ietf-cellar-tags-04.txt document is pretty much done, and won't change very much.
draft-ietf-cellar-codec-04.txt how deep do we want to describe codec mappings?  We probably aren't going to do this for every codec, but maybe a few more?

8. FLAC issues

"ffv1" for audio.  
(A bit related to ogg, when you mux it?)
We still want to do this at some point, but it is not a priority compared to ffv1, (and ffv1-v4).

AOB?

- From Spencer - when do we need to talk about 2021 meeting dates? :-)
- Answer - we'll put this on the December Agenda

Some revision to the WG milestones, to be confirmed with AD.

    NEXT MEETING December 1, 2020.
