# CELLAR -- DRAFT AGENDA for Virtual Interim Meeting

| Date |Time | Local Times |
|:------:|:-----------:|:------|
|2022-08-23 |21:00 Amsterdam |[Time Converter](https://savvytime.com/converter/netherlands-amsterdam-to-utc-ny-new-york-city-ca-san-francisco/jun-22-2021/9pm)|
| **Note** | Meeting time is anchored to Amsterdam |

## Administrivia

### INFO:
   https://github.com/ietf-wg-cellar/chair-notes/tree/master/interim-2022-07
   **Note that we're now pointing to the Github repo for chair notes here**

### WEB CONFERENCE:

    https://meetings.conf.meetecho.com/interim/?short=8291e9a9-5e5d-4f43-928a-9f49e52df598

#### Shared HedgeDoc for notetaking

    Now using the Datatracker assigned notepad at:
    https://notes.ietf.org/notes-ietf-interim-2022-cellar-07-cellar?view

* Note that if you log in to the IETF datatracker, you'll be able to edit/clarify/correct these notes, add your name to attendee lists, etc.

* Please ask Michael or Spencer if you have questions.

#### 2022 virtual interim meeting dates

 * Please note our 2022 dates listed at https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/cellar/meetings/

## Agenda Items

### Note Well:  https://www.ietf.org/about/note-well/

#### Roll call

  Attendees
   * Spencer Dawkins
   *

  Regrets
   *

#### Accept draft minutes from previous meeting (attached below)

   * Any objections? Please let us know on the mailing list.

###  WG status update

   * draft-ietf-cellar-chapter-codecs-01 posted 2022-04-30, in ID Exists
   * draft-ietf-cellar-codec-09 was posted 2022-04-30, in ID Exists
   * draft-ietf-cellar-control-01 was posted 2022-05-01, in ID Exists
   * draft-ietf-cellar-ffv1-v4-19 was posted 2022-05-31, in ID Exists
   * draft-ietf-cellar-flac-04 was posted 2022-08-21, in ID Exists
   * ***draft-ietf-cellar-matroska-11 was posted 2022-07-03, in WG Consensus: Waiting for Write-Up, and has been updated after WGLC***
   * draft-ietf-cellar-tags-09 was posted 2022-04-30, in ID Exists

###  Milestone review:

   * FLAC -  did not make July 2022 milestone. What is realistic update for milestone?
    ** We said at the June meeting that we could spend all of the August meeting on FLAC, if we needed to ...

##### Discussion on the call

   * NoTimeToWait 2022 announced as October 26-28, 2022. The venue is the The Hague.
   * Michael has proposed that we have this meeting as hybrid (in person plus remote), and has requested approval for this from our AD.

### Matroska issues - Discussion of [shepherd writeup from Michael](https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/cellar/hoyvAqjTxYNpQHdGU59TQXLEbRI/) on the call.

   * Michael is document shepherd, and we will pass it on to AD for review.
   *

### FLAC issues - Discussion on the call

   * from our last call:
       * #138 and #158 need review.

### FFV1 v4 issues - Discussion on the call

   *

## AOB?

   * Next meeting is 2022-09-27

:::success

# Previous Minutes - CELLAR -- DRAFT AGENDA for Virtual Interim Meeting

| Date |Time | Local Times |
|:------:|:-----------:|:------|
|2022-06-28 |21:00 Amsterdam |[Time Converter](https://savvytime.com/converter/netherlands-amsterdam-to-utc-ny-new-york-city-ca-san-francisco/jun-22-2021/9pm)|
| **Note** | Meeting time is anchored to Amsterdam |

## Administrivia

### INFO:
   https://github.com/ietf-wg-cellar/chair-notes/tree/master/interim-2022-06
   **Note that we're now pointing to the Github repo for chair notes here**

### WEB CONFERENCE:

    https://meetings.conf.meetecho.com/interim/?short=7e2989e5-733a-4a81-bf0d-2af8713c32b9

#### Shared HedgeDoc for notetaking

    Now using the Datatracker assigned notepad at:
    https://notes.ietf.org/notes-ietf-interim-2022-cellar-06-cellar?view

* Note that if you log in to the IETF datatracker, you'll be able to edit these notes, add your name to attendee lists, etc.

* Please ask Michael or Spencer if you have questions.

#### 2022 virtual interim meeting dates

 * Please note our 2022 dates listed at https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/cellar/meetings/

## Agenda Items

### Note Well:  https://www.ietf.org/about/note-well/

#### Roll call

  Attendees
   * Spencer Dawkins
   * Martijn van Beurden
   * Michael Richardson
   * Dave Rice
   * Steve Lhomme
   * Jérôme Martinez
   * Michael Niedermayer
   *

  Regrets
   * Reto Kromer says he's likely to miss, because he's in a war zone

#### Accept draft minutes from previous meeting (attached below)

   * Any objections? Please let us know on the mailing list.

###  WG status update

   * draft-ietf-cellar-chapter-codecs-01 posted 2022-04-30, in ID Exists
   * draft-ietf-cellar-codec-09 was posted 2022-04-30, in ID Exists
   * draft-ietf-cellar-control-01 was posted 2022-05-01, in ID Exists
   * draft-ietf-cellar-ffv1-v4-19 was posted 2022-05-31, in ID Exists
   * draft-ietf-cellar-flac-03 was posted 2022-04-24, in ID Exists
   * ***draft-ietf-cellar-matroska-10 was posted 2022-04-30, in WG Consensus: Waiting for Write-Up, and has been updated after WGLC***
   * draft-ietf-cellar-tags-09 was posted 2022-04-30, in ID Exists

###  Milestone review:

   * FLAC -  will not make July 2022 milestone. What is realistic update for milestone?
    ** probably done by end of summer, so we don't need to change the milestone date at this time.

##### Discussion on the call

   * NoTimeToWait 2022 announced as October 26-28, 2022. The venue is the The Hague.
   *

### Matroska issues - Discussion of [shepherd writeup from Michael](https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/cellar/hoyvAqjTxYNpQHdGU59TQXLEbRI/) on the call.

   * Michael to be document shepherd, and pass it on to AD for review.
   * Now in **WG Consensus: Waiting for Write-Up**

   * In addition to PR reviews, Steve also asked that we discuss whether we need an ***IANA Registry For Enums In The Document***
   * Michael has reviewed all of the document except the legacy section at the end
   * Steve has addressed about 80 percent of Michael's comments (thank you!)
   * Need to be clear about the use of BCP14 text, and especially the use of SHOULD in our specifications
   * We can also use "conditional MUST" statements if we can identify scenarios where the MUST would not apply
   * How tolerant do archiving repositories need to be, about files that are not well-formed (not compliant to the standard you support)
   * General recommednation about how to create files? Steve has a PR for that.
   * Block groups and simple block elements are legal, even if they contain no elements
   * PR #609 details
   * Section 25.3 needs to be redone as a media regisrtation.
   * Steve will create PRs with the existing issues that Michael has identified with the draft previously

### FLAC issues - Discussion on the call

   * (If time allows) - actually, we can spend all of the August call on FLAC, if that's needed to finish up by end of summer
       * #138 and #158 need review.

### FFV1 v4 issues - Discussion on the call

   * (Time probably won't allow on this call - can we pick a date for discussion).

## AOB?

   * Next meeting is 2022-08-23 - ***remember, we skip July***